create a git repo manually


when you start:
git config --global user.name "Sarang Kashalkar"
git config --global user.email sarang.kashalkar@apptware.com

initialize branch name:
git config --global init.default branch branch_ka_naam

initialize empty git repo:
git init 

how to find status of git (which files updated, or has to be pushed):
git status

Now suppose you have multiple files where you made changes, now you want to add it to git :
git add scripts.txt

if you want a file to be untracked:
git rm --cached scripts.txt 

to track all the files in one go:
git add .

Now commit is kind of a photograph or checkpoint or a point at which we save that level:
git commit -m "isme msg likho ki kya checkpoint save kiya hai"

to see what changes u made:
git log --oneline

if u want to jump back to previous commit (purana jo update h)
git reset (code value 9c4822) etc (but without paranthesis)

create new branch to make changes (test and if works, PR):
git branch New_branch_ka_naam


to know how many branches are there:
git branch

For eg, there are a,b,c and main branch .. and you want to switch branches :
git switch a 
This will switch to branch a: 
Now make changes in branch a, if it looks good:
git commit -a -m "jo bhi update mara h, likh do"

Now switch to main branch 
git switch master (ya main jo bhi name h)
git will show previous main branch only, but not the one pushed from branch a 
so u need to merge the code:
git merge -m "u r in main branch, and you are accepting the commit made by branch a" a
the last a written above is the name of the branch 

Now since your 'a' branch is merged to main, you can delete it
git branch -d a 


Both git branch new_branch and git checkout -b new_branch are used to create a new branch in a Git repository, but they have slightly different behaviors:
git branch new_branch: This command creates a new branch named new_branch but does not switch to it. It simply creates the branch at the current commit, leaving you on your current branch. You would need to use git checkout new_branch or git switch new_branch to switch to the newly created branch.
git checkout -b new_branch: This command creates a new branch named new_branch and switches to it immediately. It is essentially a combination of git branch new_branch and git checkout new_branch in one step. This is a convenient shortcut if you want to create and switch to a new branch in a single command.
In summary:
Use git branch new_branch if you want to create a new branch without switching to it immediately.
Use git checkout -b new_branch if you want to create a new branch and switch to it in a single command.